# A. Introduction

This document is a collection of exercises and commented examples of
source code (in Python). All of the source code included here is
also available as source files which you can edit and directly
execute (we will refer to these files as the «source bundle»).
Additionally, this section contains the rules and general guidelines
that apply to the course as a whole.

The latest version of this document along with the source bundle is
available both in the study materials in IS and on the student
server ‹aisa›:

 • ‹https://is.muni.cz/auth/el/fi/podzim2021/PV248/um/› – a PDF in
   ‹pv248.seminar.pdf› and the source bundle in directories ‹01›
   through ‹12›, ‹t1› through ‹t4› and ‹sol› – use the ‘download as
   ZIP’ option in the sidebar to get entire directories in one go,
 • log into ‹aisa› using ‹ssh› or ‹putty›, run ‹pv248 update›, then
   look under ‹~/pv248› (this chapter is in subdirectory ‹00›).

We will update the files as needed, to correct mistakes and to
include additional material.¹ On ‹aisa›, running ‹pv248 update› at
any time will update your working copies, taking care not to
overwrite your changes. It will also tell you which files have been
updated.

Each of the following chapters corresponds to a single week of the
semester. The correspondence between exercises and the content of
the lectures is, however, somewhat loose, especially at the start of
the semester.

«NB.» If you are going to attend the lectures (you need to enroll
separately, subject code is PV288), all you need at the start is
intuitive familiarity with common programming concepts like classes,
objects, higher-order functions and function closures (which can be
stored in variables), as covered in e.g. PB006.  You will get all
the details that you may need in the lectures. On the other hand, if
you are not going to attend lectures, you either need to already
know all the theory, or you need to study it in your free time (this
subject is purely practical).

¹ The exercises and tasks will be made available, at the latest, on
  the day before their ‘start date’ (see tables in the following
  sections). Of course, we will try to fill everything in sooner than
  that.
